---
layout: ../../layouts/BlogLayout.astro
title: Hail Mary
date: 2026-04-08T00:12:45.000-05:00
description: Project Hail Mary x "Hail Mary" by Skott
tags: ["writing", "music"]
---

A creative writing exercise from the perspective of Dr. Ryland Grace, loosely following the [lyrics](https://genius.com/Skott-hail-mary-lyrics) of ["Hail Mary" by Skott](https://youtu.be/mlquTMayEa8?si=kfgd8cdhYSr39fRu).

I highly recommend listening to the song! One of my Skott favourites. :)

<iframe data-testid="embed-iframe" style="border-radius:12px" src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/4uNEssYYSMS1UQJyyBidrU?utm_source=generator" width="100%" height="152" frameBorder="0" allowfullscreen="" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" loading="lazy"></iframe>

I especially love the Hailstorm Version!

<iframe data-testid="embed-iframe" style="border-radius:12px" src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/5Xbd5Epe9PEeSazmHqJH7b?utm_source=generator" width="100%" height="152" frameBorder="0" allowfullscreen="" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" loading="lazy"></iframe>

# *Lover*

I tried to love you from a distance,  
because I didn't, wouldn't, couldn't let anyone in.  
My fears extend too deeply—I am entrenched in them.  
You called me weak, yet I feel selfish,  
for who keeps their head in the clouds, away from their lover?  
Now, I'm on the other side of the planet, a universe between us.  
I know this shot's one in a million, but will you notice?  
My shame, my apologies, my signs?  

Won't you hear me out? Won't you listen?  
A scream in the distance, passing you my heart,  
sending a Hail Mary signal.  
And I'm sorry—  
here's my eighty yards—  
forgive me.  
Passing you my heart, always.  
Catch it if you want...

# *Launch*

I tried to stay at a distance,  
I guess I refused to fully commit.  
You called me weak, but I felt the full weight of my refusal.  
But what was a weak, selfish middle school teacher to do?  
Now, there's (quite literally) a universe between us—  
I know the shot's one in a million at this point,  
but I will send back information until you notice.  

# *Flashback*

Won't you hear me out? (Why didn't you listen to me?)  
Won't you listen? (Why me?)  
A scream in the distance (That's probably from me)  
Passing you my heart (Please, spare me)  
Hail Mary (Now I'm here, on this ship, alone)  
And I'm sorry (Please let me go home)  
Here's my eighty yards (I will try to complete this mission)  
Forgive me (for not being strong)  
Passing you my heart (my discoveries, my fears, my story)

# *Rocky*

I know it's been lonely for the both of us—  
I am grateful that you waited for me, on a cloud.  
I didn't know how much I'd drifted (Hail Mary and I),  
but now you're the star I left in Heaven, the one who will guide me home.  
And if I'm reaching for it, the Astrophage and Taumeoba on Adrian, I will fall.  
I only wish that you could hear me, and understand my language fully.  
But what we have is enough.

Won't you hear me out? Won't you listen?  
A scream in the distance (your first signal to me),  
passing you my heart (of my comrades)—  
sending a Hail Mary signal (from the both of us).  
And I'm sorry...  
here's my eighty yards—  
forgive me, for not being able to save you.  
Passing you my heart, always.  
Catch it if you want.  
I am so glad you are awake.

# *Return*

Rocky, catch my messages if you want.  
I'm screaming in the distance to find you again.

And I'm sorry, for not being able to help earlier.  
Here's my eighty yards—forgive me.  
I'm here to help you now.  
Passing you my resources, my knowledge, my heart.

# *Home*

Earth, catch my probes and vlogs and legacy, if you want.  
Erid, catch my memories and heart and future, if you want.  

Thank you both for being my home.